In this video, you'll learn how
to sign up for the CrateDB
Cloud, create a new database
cluster, and retrieve your
connection credentials.
So let's just dive on in and get
started.
We're going to begin here at the
CrateDB website.
So take your browser to
cratedb.com and then you're
going to click on this Get
Started button in the top right.
And we want to go with the CrateDB
Cloud option today.
As you'll see, we can start for
free.
So click Start for free and
you'll be taken here to the
CrateDB Cloud Console login.
You won't have an account at
this point, so you'll need to
sign up.
You can choose to sign up with
one of the social services, so
GitHub, Google, or Microsoft, or
you can just pick a username and
a password.
Whichever one you choose, you're
going to be sent an e-mail with
a verification code and that's
got a link in it.
Once you receive that e-mail,
click the link and you'll come
back to the Cloud Console.
As you can see here, I'm now
signed in and the first thing we
need to do when we're a new user
is create an organization.
Think of this as like a company
or something that you want to
keep all of your database
clusters organised under.
So go ahead here and enter your
company name or your own name or
whatever you want to call your
organization.
I'm going to call mine CrateDB
as that's where I work, and I'm
going to click create
organization.
So as you can see, that's
happened.
We've now created an
organization.
It's like a holding container
for clusters and there are no
clusters in it at the moment.
So the next thing we want to do
is go ahead and deploy a
cluster.
So we'll click the button there
and here we get some choices.
So for production, we might want
to vary things here and select
some of the other options.
As we're going with the free
trial option here, we're going
to basically select a simple
database and we're not going to
be charged for this.
So here we're going to stay on
shared.
We're going to stick with this
CR3 size here, which as you'll
see is free.
We're not going to be charged
for it and there's no need to
enter a payment method.
And one thing we can choose is
let's look at the available
clouds and regions.
So this database cluster can be
built in a cloud of your choice
in a region near you from the
ones available.
So I'm in the UK, so I'm going
to choose AWS Europe, Ireland
here because that's closest to
me, which might be important for
keeping latency down when you're
building an application in the
cloud.
Next, I can give the cluster a
name, or I can go with this one
that's been picked for me.
I'm just going to call this my
cluster, but we can call it
anything.
Then once we're done, we're
ready to click this deploy
cluster button and we'll get
asked a simple question.
What are we planning on using
the cluster for?
I'm actually going to use this
to take a course on CrateDB
Academy.
So I'll select other for now and
hit deploy the cluster.
So what we see now is that the
cluster is being deployed and
we've already got some login
credentials.
So these are secrets.
You shouldn't share them with
people.
I'm not going to show them on
the screen, but you can click
the download button here and
that will download all of the
credentials that you need to
connect to this database cluster
once it's up and running.
That will include the host name,
the port, the username, and the
password.
As you can see here, the cluster
is currently being deployed.
So while that's happening, we'll
scroll down and see what we've
got here.
We've got some information about
how to connect to the cluster.
So these are the things that are
in that text file that you can
download from the button above.
Again, we don't see the password
because we're not going to share
that.
If you want to see how you might
connect to your cluster from
different programming languages,
there's examples here with your
clusters details already
completed.
So this one, for example, is
Python, this one is Node.js, and
this one is using our Crash CLI.
So clusters still being
deployed.
So when that finishes up, we'll
go ahead and have a look at the
console.
Okay, so our cluster is now
deployed.
We can see there we have a green
light and it says healthy as of
a few seconds ago, so it should
be ready to use.
So let's go ahead and launch the
console over here on the left we
have a console menu item.
So we click that and this takes
us to an interface that allows
us to enter and execute SQL
commands on our cluster.
Congratulations, you've now set
up your first cluster on
CrateDB Cloud.